---
name: Aniket Handa
uwnetid: aniket
caption: Usual Departure Delay from Seattle
dataset: flight
what: CSE 512 Assignment 2
---
The visualization is designed for frequent travellers who wish to quickly pick a carrier given an origin city, and where departure delay matters. Here the display is shown with respect to the origin city as Seattle but it could be easily be made for any other city. This could be used either at the origin city airport or at travel booking websites, facilitating better time schedules for travellers. For example, if I want to go to Chicago I might not rely on Alaska Airline whereas if I want to go to Houston the same Airline might be a reliable choice. A total number of 52 cities were reached from Seattle via flights (Dec, 2009). But, for not making the visualization too complicated, it only shows top 21 busiest airports from the city. The list of top 21 busiest airport is determined by the total number of flight records each city holds. The cities are listed in alphabetical order for a quick lookup. Average Departure delay is shown below, with a bar running from green to red. The central colour of the bar is at the average (which is 7.88 minutes for Seattle). The coloured bar serves the dual purpose of a colour redundant scale for departure delay and also serves as a key for circles in front of every city. The circles represent the overall departure delay for the particular city, calculated by averaging out all the flight data to that city. One can quickly discern that flights to Chicago, IL and Philadelphia, PA usually run late from Seattle. Also flights from Denver are not that delayed except for an outliner by SkyWest. One can also find interesting patterns by overviewing the data; like the pattern formed by blue squares gives a feeling that Alaska Airlines depart usually on time. The size of the squares represents the number of flights by that airline. It can also be seen by size of squares that Alaska Airlines is big in Seattle. No wonder Seattle is primary hub of Alaska Airline.